So by default with min width
media queries, in other words,
where the mobile styles
are outside of the media queries.
When we make the screen bigger,
those mobile styles
are gonna continue on forever after, so we
can make the screen as large as we want.
We have no media queries in place, and
this is going to look exactly the same.
The same layout for all of the other sizes
of devices that you might be using here.
And while that looks very cool, it is
not what our specification called for.
So what we wanna do now,
now that we've got this working for
smaller mobile sizes, we are going
to add a media query at 500 pixels.
So what you should do now is
move your display window here,
look at the number down on the bottom in
the little pill, and make sure that you
are over 500 pixels wide, so that you
see the changes that are being made.
If you leave your design window small,
your changes will continue to take effect,
but you will not see them, because, of
course, they apply to larger size windows.
So we wanna make sure that we have
the right size window in place.
>> Said to 500?
>> Over 500, okay.
So now what we'll do is we'll
put in our first media query.
So how is this going to go?
Anybody wanna give me the code for this?
A min width media query for 500 pixels?
>> @media?
>> @media, yep?
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Yeah, in parentheses, min-width, yeah?
>> 500px.
>> 500px, exactly.
So anything that comes inside this
media query will apply over 500 pixels.
We can override what came before.
We can also add new styles to this.
So what I'm going to do now then is,
my next design,
I have my featured card up here on
the top, it now has a border around it.
In fact, all of the cards have borders
all the way around them, right?
And I have two cards sitting side by side,
and
all of the information in those cards
is stacked on top of each other, right?
Okay, I always find it helpful to
actually say all of that out loud.
I mean, it looks really obvious, but
it helps you think through the problem.
So what we need to do then is, we need to
recode our card to go from the headline
and the button with the image next
to it to have everything stacked.
So that's one change we need to make.
And we need to somehow figure out, whereas
these cards were all just stacked on top
of each other one after the other, what
I need to do now is have two columns for
those cards and have the featured
card span across those two columns.
Makes sense?
So that's our plan.
Let's see what we can do about that.
If we take a look at our HTML,
always a great place to start,
how would I make two columns
out of all of these cards?
Can I do it with the HTML that I have?
You're saying no, James,
why are you saying no?
>> Because there's no way
to select all of them.
>> Exactly, so
there's no parent to all these cards.
We wanna lay out the cards on the page,
they need a parent.
And right now they are just
unruly children, yes?
Okay, so let us add to this then a parent.
I'm just gonna use div again.
And I'm gonna call this
class of card-container,
because that's what it's doing.
And we can put a /div
after all of the cards,
and I like to indent them, okay?
Will that div impact our mobile design?
The one that I just added,
is that gonna impact my mobile design?
Why do you say no, Tapper?
>> Because we don't do anything with that
class
>> Exactly,
we make no reference to
it in the mobile design.
So we can just add this now and
it's not going to break anything.
Okay, great.
So now let's concentrate
on the layout of our cards.
We wanna try to get them
into two columns and
we wanna have the featured
card span across the top.
How would I do that now?
What is my style that I would put here?
What is the selector?
>> card-container.
>> card-container, exactly.
So from my card-container,
what am I going to say next?
>> grid-template-columns.
>> How about display: grid?
[LAUGH] You're absolutely right, but
first we need to display grid, okay?
Then grid-template-columns.
What comes next?
>> grid-template-rows, no.
>> Template columns, no rows yet.
>> I see.
>> 1fr 1fr.
Or you could say repeat, parenthesis 2,
1fr, either way, gives you the same thing.
Okay, that's a mess, but can you kinda see
that we've got what we're looking for?
We have the two cards next to each other.
Everybody see that,
even though it's messy?
Okay, now I need to give
this a little bit of a gap.
So I'm gonna say 1rem for a gap,
that'll make it a little less messy,
but not by much.
Okay, so next,
I need to have that featured card,
the first one,
I need that to span across both columns.
So what is the next style I need to
put here inside of my media query?
>> .feature.
>> Yeah, .feature.
And what am I going to say next?
>> grid-columns: 1/3.
>> 1/3, exactly.
Hey, look at that.
Are we done?
Actually pretty well,
we're pretty well done.
That is all we really need to have
here for the layout purposes, okay?
So it spans across the two columns.
There we go.
There's all the cards lined up underneath.
All right, so
to finish up this feature design here,
we'll add to this a border
of 1 pixel solid ccc.
So that'll put a lovely little
border around the whole thing.
We can give this a little bit of padding,
1 rem, because it looks
kinda ugly when the border goes
right on the edges of the card.
And then a border-radius of 5 pixels.
And that'll give us a tiny,
little bit of rounding of those corners.
Fashion tip for those of you who
are fashion challenged like me.
Make sure all your border radii match.
So if we're gonna call it 5 pixels for
your border radius here,
make sure it's 5 pixels on your button,
make sure it's 5 pixels on your image.
If you have all different border radii, or
some have pointy corners and some have
rounded corners, then designers get upset.
So make them all match, okay?
So now I need to bring
back my paragraph of text.
If I take a look at my comp again here,
my text,
lorem ipsum,
should be displaying here on this page.
So we need to bring that back.
If we go back in our mobile styles,
that was controlled by this
funky looking style right here.
So I'm just gonna copy that same style and
paste it into my media query.
You want it to match in
terms of the selector,
because different selectors
have different specificities.
So you wanna use the same type of
selector here inside of your media query.
So we'll override what came before, and
this time instead of display: none,
we'll say display: block,
which will bring our paragraph back.
At this point in time, we have a choice,
we actually haven't formatted
our cards underneath.
And we know that with
the rest of our design,
there aren't two columns in those cards.
So that difference with the two
columns on that featured,
that's gonna go away actually
as we get to our later cards.
So what I'm going to do now is I'm
going to just ignore what's here.
I know it looks wrong,
you're totally right, it looks wrong.
But I'm going to ignore it for the moment
in favor of styling up my other cards, and
then I'm gonna revisit featured to get
it looking the way it should, okay?
That's my plan.
All right, so for the rest of
my cards here, then what I wanna
do is I wanna stack the headline,
the image, and the button.
What would be an easy
way to make this happen?
>> display: grid and
then have just one column.
>> You could do that.
Yep, you could say .card, and
then you could say display: grid.
You could say grid-template-columns: 1fr.
And then you have to turn off the settings
for the headline and the button because,
remember, the image is spanned.
I'm sorry,
you have to turn off the settings for
the image because, remember, the image
is spanning over two rows, right?
>> display: block?
If we do display: block, then we
save ourselves a little bit of work.
So if we got a block,
then they just stack, how cool is that?
[LAUGH] Okay, so
the only thing that we need to do now for
these cards then is add a border,
1 pixel solid ccc,
cuz we want them to match
with all the other cards.
We wanna give them the same padding,
padding 1rem.
We wanna give them a border radius,
5 pixels, to match all the other cards.
Why didn't my padding pad?
Cuz I forgot my colon.
[LAUGH] There we go.
There we go.
Hey, look at those cards,
don't they look great?
Okay, we may wanna put a little bit of
space here in between the button and
the image, sort of depending.
But it's worth noting over here,
do you guys see Pluto and Charon?
See, it has no border on it?
Why does it have no border on
it when all the other cards do?
So unfair,
the youngest child always gets the-
>> Because
you're still on that
code with the last child.
>> Yeah, we did.
Up here with the last child,
we said border: none.
It's still doing that exact same thing,
isn't it?
Gosh, I hate it when that happens.
It's doing exactly what I told it to do.
So we're gonna change
this to 1px solid #ccc.
And the border will come back for
Pluto also.
Poor Pluto, man.
Okay, so let's give a little bit of
space between the image and that button.
So we can say .card img,
margin-bottom: 1rem.
And once again, notice that things
are not lining up perfectly, okay?
We have Jupiter and Galilean moons
takes up two lines, Saturn and
its moons takes up one line.
The buttons don't align
down here on the bottom.
This is all just fine for
the moment, okay?
I see it, I see the problem, but
we cannot fix it with the tools
that we have at the moment.
This is a job for subgrid, and we're gonna
talk about that in chapter nine, okay?
Let's revisit our featured card.
Hey, look at that,
it's kinda fixed itself, didn't it?
Well, we got rid of
the columns on our card and
fixed our featured card, so
that is looking good too.
Let's compare our comp,
make sure everything's looking all right.
Pretty much got what
the designer had planned here.
We were pretty close.